feat: protocol agents section revamp (#150)
hyperlane-xyz/v3-docs: docs/protocol/agents/relayer.mdx

:::tip
The relayer will periodically retry metadata gathering and message submission. This is important to improve resilience against disruptions, such as: no gas payment made to pay for delivery, insufficient relayer balance, temporary spikes in transaction fees on the destination, Validator downtime.
:::

### Relayer Incentives
Message senders are charged for delivery on the origin chain, and it is the relayer operator's responsibility to rebalance revenue to destination chain accounts so delivery transaction fees can always be paid for. The relayer does not receive direct token incentives from the protocol, but operators can configure their fee structure for providing their critical service. For more information, check out [Interchain Gas Payments (IGPs)](../interchain-gas-payment.mdx).

### Operating a Relayer
Relayers can easily configure the messages that they wish to process. Currently, the relayer will support:

1. A sender / recipient whitelist.
2. A sender / recipient blacklist.
3. The ability to accept [payments on the origin chain](../../reference/messaging/send.mdx#quote-dispatch) for processing a message on the destination chain.

> While permissionless to run, it's up to the message sender to pick which relayer to pay for delivery. [Mailbox](../mailbox.mdx) integrations usually default to always paying the same relayer, so if driven by economic incentives, it's only recommended to run a relayer for a self-deployed bridge. For convenience, Hyperlane will run an open source and configurable relayer agent, implemented as a Rust binary. If you'd like to run your own relayer, we've open sourced the [binary here](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/tree/main/rust/agents/relayer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While permissionless to run, it's up to the message sender to pick which relayer to pay for delivery. [Mailbox](../mailbox.mdx) integrations usually default to always paying the same relayer, but message senders can opt out of this. For convenience, Hyperlane will run an open source and configurable relayer agent, implemented as a Rust binary. If you'd like to run your own relayer, we've open sourced the [binary here](https://github.com/hyperlane-xyz/hyperlane-monorepo/tree/main/rust/agents/relayer).
```

nit: I don't feel strongly, but idk if we wanna explicitly discourage relayer operators

Running your own relayer involves deploying an [IGP contract](../interchain-gas-payment.mdx) and maintaining token exchange rates and gas prices inside of it to accurately charge message delivery fees.

:::info
Want to run a relayer? Follow the [Relayer](../../operate/relayer/run-relayer.mdx) guide.
:::

## In more detail

The relayer is comprised of two main tasks: an Indexer for each origin, and a Submitter for each destination.

![High-level Relayer Architecture](/img/relayer-architecture-high-level.png)

### The Indexer

> Both new and historic messages are indexed by querying [Mailbox](../mailbox.mdx) contract events using RPC. [Gas payments](../interchain-gas-payment.mdx) are also indexed to confirm senders paid for delivery, and certain ISMs use additional origin chain data. This is the case with the Multisig ISM, which relies on the Merkle Tree Hook contract to inform the Relayer about which Validator signature corresponds to which message. There is a standalone indexing task spawned for every event type (Messages, IGP, Merkle Tree insertion).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both new and historic messages are indexed by querying [Mailbox](../mailbox.mdx) contract events using RPCs. [Gas payments](../interchain-gas-payment.mdx) are also indexed to confirm senders paid for delivery, and certain ISMs use additional origin chain data. This is the case with the Multisig ISM, which relies on the Merkle Tree Hook contract to inform the Relayer about which Validator signature corresponds to which message. There is a standalone indexing task spawned for every event type (Messages, IGP, Merkle Tree insertion).
```

### The Submitter

Messages go through four stages as part of the Submitter, which are spawned as independent tasks described below.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Submitter Task</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Message Processor</td>
      <td>Polls the local database to check if there are any undelivered messages and pushes them to the Prepare step's queue.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Prepare Task</td>
      <td>
        Pops messages from its queue, ensures gas was paid, fetches any metadata and simulates the message delivery transaction. If the simulation succeeds, the message is pushed to the Submit step's queue. Otherwise, the message is pushed back to the Prepare queue.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Submit Task</td>
      <td>

>         Pops messages from its queue, and sends the delivery transaction onchain. deliveries are batched whenever possible. If there is no error broadcasting the transaction, the message is pushed to the Confirm step's queue. Otherwise, the message is pushed back to the Prepare queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Pops messages from its queue, and sends the delivery transaction onchain. Deliveries are batched whenever possible. If there is no error broadcasting the transaction, the message is pushed to the Confirm step's queue. Otherwise, the message is pushed back to the Prepare queue.
```
